# Purpose of Bots

What are video game bots needed for? This is the first question popping into your mind when you hear about the video game bots. We can make a step backward and think about a history and the reasons for inventing bots. 

First mention of bots appears in the [**first-person shooter**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-person_shooter) (FPS) games. The problem arises when people start to compete in a "player vs player" mode also known as deathmatch. Sometimes players wanted to practice without human opponents or they just did not have any possibility to connect with other players. Deathmatch game mode differs great from the single player one, where primitive [**artificial intelligence**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence_%28video_games%29)(AI) is enough. The AI in deathmatch should be more complicated and imitate human behavior better. It is not only responsible for finding and attacking real player (like single player mode AI does), but for more. Now AI should select a route on the map, decide when it will be favorable to attack player or to retreat for recovery, and do many other things. This kind of AI was named bot.

Video game evolution brings a new kind of problems. [**Massively multiplayer online role-playing game**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Massively_multiplayer_online_role-playing_game) (MMORPG) genre was becoming more and more popular simultaneously with an Internet penetration. New genre has a lot in common with the classic [**role-playing game**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-playing_video_game) (RPG) one. But now the game process became more stretched for a time because of many players' participation and intention of the game developers to keep players' interest for as long as possible. This leads to increasing a time of the player's character development. Now you should spend weeks or months performing quests and resources extraction. All of this work is required to achieve the character's level, that will be enough to start competing with other players. The main attraction of MMORPG is this kind of a competition with the human opponents.

Many players might describe the process of character development as very monotonous, having huge amount of simple repeating actions. They decide to start looking for ways to automate these tedious tasks. Sometimes MMORPG developers provide tools for the plugins creation with trivial automation features. But usually you need much more. New approaches and workarounds should be discovered to really extend MMORPG functionality, that will be suitable for your particular needs. MMORPG developers have not a benefit from this kind of functionality, so they would not usually implement it. These custom applications for the game automation were named [**MMORPG bots**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MMORPG_bots). Perhaps, the reason of this name is imitation of the player's behavior that is very similar to the bots for FPS genre.

Automation of a game process is not the only task that has appeared with the new genre of online games. Some players compete with others such enthusiastically that they start looking for ways to avoid game rules. It allows them to get signifiant advantages over opponents. These ways include such approaches as showing an extra information about a game state, changing characteristics of the player's and opponent's characters, immediately receiving the necessary resources and others. Applications for achieving these goals are called [**cheats**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheating_in_online_games), **hacks** or bots sometimes.

You have seen that game bots may be quite necessary in some cases like training a player's character in multiplayer online games. Bots are also useful for automating many monotonous game processes, so that you will able to start a competition with human opponents much faster. The last application domain of the bots is cheating and avoiding the game rules to take an advantage over the opponents.